Received: from kedge2.utk.tennessee.edu (160.36.179.112) by
 kch2.utk.tennessee.edu (160.36.76.206) with Microsoft SMTP Server (TLS) id
 14.1.255.0; Thu, 4 Nov 2010 19:58:27 -0400
Received: from relay-westlaw.westgroup.net (167.68.16.120) by
 kedge2.utk.tennessee.edu (160.36.179.112) with Microsoft SMTP Server (TLS) id
 14.1.255.0; Thu, 4 Nov 2010 19:58:19 -0400
Received: from ns0109-03.westlan.com (HELO ns0109-03) ([167.68.144.87])  by
 relay-westlaw.westgroup.net with ESMTP; 04 Nov 2010 17:58:26 -0600
Message-ID: <20101104185826.ia744b45b0000012c195364c54cb96e57@ns0109-03>
Date: Thu, 4 Nov 2010 18:58:26 -0500
From: <westlaw@westlaw.com>
Reply-To: <west.support@thomsonreuters.com>
To: <booneradley@utk.edu>
Subject: Some research
Content-ID: 6619034
Content-Description: PRISM:PROD
Return-Path: westlaw@westlaw.com
X-MS-Exchange-Organization-Antispam-Report: v=1.1
 cv=h1+UY8uBPtX1en1ytAAtR6uGUVm2ftsfDACZlhaDVAE= c=1 sm=1 a=ej4C8YMXHnUA:10
 a=H/EccPXUDcB/W/CtbPqnrw==:17 a=sKXcTQ3dPH0pxp0ZbugA:9
 a=aEjMTXDKZEdAUWBrX1QA:7 a=f3N7e8j1r-7dMjw9qa6YVJYJJHwA:4 a=QEXdDO2ut3YA:10
 a=XpF2f1YP_ZOizKN9:21 a=w-t4ZlE44Opws61D:21
 a=H/EccPXUDcB/W/CtbPqnrw==:117;OrigIP:167.68.16.120;SCL:-1
X-MS-Exchange-Organization-AVStamp-Mailbox: MSFTFF;1;0;0 0 0
X-MS-Exchange-Organization-SCL: -1
X-MS-Exchange-Organization-AuthSource: kedge2.utk.tennessee.edu
X-MS-Exchange-Organization-AuthAs: Anonymous
X-MS-Exchange-Organization-Antispam-Report: MessageSecurityAntispamBypass
Status: RO
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: multipart/mixed;
	boundary="--boundary-LibPST-iamunique-1397609903_-_-"


----boundary-LibPST-iamunique-1397609903_-_-
Content-Type: text/plain; charset="windows-1252"


92 S.W. 1104            FOR EDUCATIONAL USE ONLY      

7 Cates 610, 115 Tenn. 610, 92 S.W. 1104, 9 L.R.A.N.S. 979

(Cite as: 7 Cates 610,  92 S.W. 1104)



Yel Flg
                             Supreme Court of Tennessee.

                                  BRADFORD & CARSON

                                         v.

                              MONTGOMERY FURNITURE CO.

                                    May 19, 1906.

Appeal from Chancery Court, Davidson County; John Allison, Chancellor.

Action by Bradford & Carson against the Montgomery Furniture Company. From a
decree in favor of defendant, complainant appeals. Reversed and remanded.

                                   West Headnotes

Assignments 38 k 5

38 Assignments

     38I Property, Estates, and Rights Assignable

          38k5 k. Estates or Interests in Property in General. Most Cited Cases

Good Will 192 k 5

192 Good Will

     192k4 Sale or Other Transfer

          192k5 k. Requisites and Validity. Most Cited Cases

Where a partnership business including its good will, is sold under an
unconditional agreement that the sellers shall not reengage in that business in
the same city for a limited time, the good will and the contract for its
protection are property rights, and assignable.

Bills and Notes 56 k 97(3)

56 Bills and Notes

     56I Requisites and Validity

          56I(E) Consideration

               56k97 Failure of Consideration

                    56k97(3) k. Rights or Interests Subsequently  Proving
Valueless. Most Cited Cases

Where a partnership business, including its good will, was sold, and a note taken
in a separate sum for the good will at its separate valuation under an
unconditional agreement of the sellers not to re-engage in that business in the
same city for three years, a breach of the agreement at the end of a year did not
defeat the seller's right to maintain an action on the note, subject to the right
of the defendants to recoup such damages as they might be able to prove themselves
entitled to recover.

Contracts 95 k 117(2)

95 Contracts

     95I Requisites and Validity

          95I(F) Legality of Object and of Consideration

               95k115 Restraint of Trade or Competition in  Trade

                    95k117 General or Partial  Restraint

                         95k117(2) k. Limitations as to Time and Place in  General.
Most Cited Cases

     (Formerly 265k12(4))

A contract for the sale of a business, including the good will, with an agreement
on the part of the sellers not to re-engage in that business in the same city for
three years, is not in restraint of trade, but valid and enforceable.

Damages 115 k 12

115 Damages

     115II Nominal Damages

          115k10 Nominal or Substantial Damages

               115k12 k. Extent of Damage Not Shown. Most Cited  Cases

Good Will 192 k 7

192 Good Will

     192k7 k. Actions. Most Cited Cases

Where a contract for the sale of a business, including the good will, with an
agreement on the part of the sellers not to re-engage in that business in the same
city for three years, is breached by the sellers re-engaging in business within
the time limited, the measure of recovery is the actual damages which the buyers
are able to show naturally and proximately resulted therefrom, and on failure to
furnish data from which the jury can properly estimate the actual damages, they
will be limited to nominal damages.

Good Will 192 k 6(4)

192 Good Will

     192k4 Sale or Other Transfer

          192k6 Rights and Liabilities of Parties

               192k6(2) Breach of Contract of Sale

                    192k6(4) k. Resumption of Business by Vendor. Most Cited  Cases

Where a partnership business, including its good will, was sold under an
unconditional agreement that the sellers should not re-engage in that business in
the same city for a limited time, the fact that the buyers put the business, with
other capital, into a corporation before the expiration of the period did not
release the sellers from their obligation.

*1105 Stokes & Stokes, for appellant. Chambers & Nust and M. B. & Boyd Howell, for
appellee.


SHIELDS, J.

Complainants J. H. Bradford and J. T. Carson, partners under the firm name and
style of Bradford & Carson, bring this bill against R. J., B. W., and W. W.
Montgomery, partners under the firm name and style of Montgomery Furniture
Company, to recover upon a note made to complainants by the defendants on February
2, 1902, for $3,000.

The defense made by answer and cross-bill is that the complainants have breached a
contract and agreement made with the defendants in part consideration of the note
sued on, and have thus destroyed the consideration of the note and injured and
damaged defendants in the sum of $10,000 for which they ask a decree.

The material facts found by the Court of Chancery Appeals are these:

Complainants, who for some years have been engaged in the wholesale and retail
furniture business in the city of Nashville, on February 2, 1902, sold their
entire business consisting of furniture, fixtures, and the good will of the firm
to defendants, agreeing at the same time to remain out of the furniture business
in Nashville for three years, from and after that time. The contract price of the
merchandise and fixtures was $28,537.01, and was paid at the time of the sale. The
value of the good will of Bradford & Carson, and their contract not to again
resume business in Nashville within three years was agreed to be $3,000, and for
this the note sued upon was made. Complainants delivered their stock, fixtures,
and business to the defendants, ceased the furniture business, and complainant
Bradford entered and remained in the employ of the defendants, assisting them in
conducting their business, for some four months.

That on July 1, 1902, the Montgomery Furniture Company sold their entire business
to the Montgomery Furniture & Manufacturing Company, a corporation which the
defendants were instrumental in creating and organizing for the purpose of
manufacturing furniture and dealing in it at wholesale and retail, in the city of
Nashville. The defendants were the owners of $30,000 of the capital stock of the
corporation, which was $72,000, were its chief officers, and had the management of
its business. The corporation continued the furniture business in all respects as
it had been conducted by the defendants, until January 1, 1904, when it resold
this part of its business to the defendants who have carried it on from that time
in all things as they did prior to their sale to the corporation.

That on January 1, 1903, the complainant, J. H. Bradford, in connection with his
brother and son as partners, again engaged in the wholesale furniture business in
Nashville, under the firm name of the Bradford Wholesale Furniture Company, in
opposition to defendants, competing with them while stockholders of the Montgomery
Furniture & Manufacturing Company, and later as partners under their old firm name
and style of Montgomery Furniture Company.

Upon these facts the Court of Chancery Appeals held and adjudged that the
complainants had breached their contracts not to engage in the furniture business
in Nashville for three years, from and after their sale to the defendants, and
that this breach constituted a good defense to any recovery upon the note sued on,
and dismissed their bill with cost. That court made no finding upon the subject of
damages which the defendants claim they sustained by complainants' breach of their
contract.

Complainants have appealed from this decree, and assigned errors. We will dispose
of the several errors assigned as a whole.

The first contention of the complainants is that when the defendants sold their
partnership business to the Montgomery Furniture & Manufacturing Company, they
ceased to be in the furniture business, and complainants were free to again engage
in it, and, in doing so, they were not in opposition to the defendants, and
committed no breach of their contract. This contention is predicated upon the
assumption that complainants contracted with the defendants as individuals only,
and that when the defendants sold their business to the Montgomery Furniture &
Manufacturing Company they as individuals ceased to do business, and that that
conducted by the Montgomery Furniture & Manufacturing Company, was a separate and
distinct business carried on by another person, a stranger to their contract and
in no way entitled to its benefits. They further say that the contract which they
had made with the defendants was not assignable, and did not pass to the
corporation with the sale of the business of the defendants, but was lost and
destroyed by such sale. In support of this contention they cite and rely upon the
case of  Bagby & Rivers Co. v. Rivers, 87 Md. 400, 40 Atl. 171, 40 L. R. A. 632,
67 Am. St. Rep. 357. That case does go far towards*1106  supporting their
position. It is there held that Bagby, who had purchased the good will of the firm
of Bagby & Rivers, together with the right to continue the business in the old
firm name, from the retiring partner Rivers, with a contract upon the part of
Rivers not to again engage in the same business, in the same place, within a
limited time, lost the benefit of the contract and released Rivers from his
agreement when he assigned said contract to a corporation formed to continue the
same business. We are, however, not satisfied with the reasoning of the court in
that case, believing it to be too technical, and destructive of the spirit of the
contract and the purpose and intention of the parties, and are unwilling to follow
it. All contracts should be construed and interpreted, when it is possible to do
so, in accordance with the intention of the parties, so as to effect the ends
contemplated and contracted for by them. We think the complainants contracted with
the defendants not to engage in the furniture business for three years, in
competition with them, regardless of whether they conducted their business, as
individuals, partners, or stockholders in a corporation. The thing contracted for
was protection against competition from the complainants, in order that the
defendants might have the full benefit of the good will of the old business they
had purchased. It was immaterial to the complainants in what name the defendants
conducted their business; that was a matter in which they were not interested.
Their contract was simply not to engage in a business which would by competition
be injurious to, or compete with the capital, energy, and ability which the
defendants were investing in and devoting to the furniture business in Nashville.
Complainants would probably have made the same contract for the same
consideration, if defendants at the time had told them they intended to
incorporate their business. The entire business of the defendants, including all
they had purchased from the complainants, was made over to the corporation, and
they became the owners of nearly one-half of the capital stock, and were its chief
officers. They had the same money invested in the business of the corporation, and
gave that business the same attention as they had previously their partnership
business. The business of the corporation, to the extent they were interested in
it, was their business and was as much protected by the contract of the
complainants as it was while it was conducted in their own name. Certainly after
January 1, 1904, when they withdrew from the corporation, their business was the
same in all respects as it was when the contract was made with the complainants.
We think, to hold that the defendants lost the benefit of their contract by virtue
of the vestiture of the title of their business in an artificial person in order,
as they thought, to carry it on more advantageously, would be to allow the
complainants, while recovering full consideration, to defeat the object of their
contract and do the defendants great injustice. Complainants contracted not to
engage in the furniture business for the time mentioned in opposition to the
defendants. The agreement was absolute and without qualification. The change made
by the defendants in the manner of conducting their business, in no way affected
complainants. It did not in any way increase or lessen the obligation and burdens
of their contract, and we cannot see upon what principle, consistent with reason
and justice, that it should release them from its performance.

The good will which defendants had purchased from complainants, and the contract
they had made with them for its protection, were property rights, valuable and
assignable, and were not affected by the changes made by the defendants in the
manner in which they conducted their business. The contract remained in full force
and effect until it expired by its own limitations.

These conclusions, we think, are well supported by reason and the weight of
authority. In the case of  Kramer v. Old et al., 119 N. C. 1, 25 S. E. 813, 34  L.
R. A. 389, 56 Am. St. Rep. 650, the defendants sold their milling business at
Elizabeth City, N. C., to the complainant and agreed not to again engage in the
same business at that place; afterwards, with others, they organized a corporation
in which they became stockholders to compete with the purchaser of their former
business at Elizabeth City, and the complainant filed a bill to enjoin them from
carrying on said business. The defendants insisted that as stockholders they were
not violating the contract which they had made as individuals; that the
corporation was a separate and distinct person and was not bound by any contract
made by its stockholders. The court, in granting the relief prayed, said:

"As a Court of Chancery Appeals we must declare that, where injunctive relief is
asked, it is the duty of the court to restrain the contracting parties from
violating the spirit, as well as the letter, of the agreement. Under a fair and
just interpretation of its terms the stipulation meant that the three defendants
were not to engage in business so as to bring their skill, names, and influence to
the aid of any competitor carrying on the same trade within the prohibited limits.
It was therefore a violation of the contract on the part of the three mentioned,
or either of them, to take stock in, help to organize, or manage a corporation
formed to compete with the plaintiff in his business.

"While the courts will not restrain a party bound by such a contract from selling
or leasing his premises to others to engage in the business which he was agreed to
abstain from carrying on, or from selling to them the machinery or supplies needed
in embarking in it, a different rule must prevail when it appears that the
prohibited party*1107  attempts, not to sell outright to others, but to furnish
the machinery or capital, or a portion of either, in lieu of stock in a
corporation organized with a view to competition with the person protected by his
contract against such injury. The three contracting defendants have presumably
received the full value of the business sold and which is protected by their own
agreement against their own competition, and equity will not allow them with the
price in their pockets to evade their contract under the thin guise of becoming
the chief stockholders in a company organized to do what they cannot lawfully do
as individuals."

In the case of  Dunlop v. Gregory, 10 N. Y. 241, 61 Am. Dec. 747, the defendants
had contracted with the plaintiffs not to operate a steamboat upon certain waters,
and had breached their contract. Plaintiff sued for damages, and the defense was
that the association of which the plaintiffs were members, when the contract was
made, had been dissolved, the defendants were released from the obligation of
their contract. The court, in affirming a judgment for plaintiffs, said: "Because
a part of the covenantees sold out their interest in the steamboats running on the
Hudson river, between the making of the agreement and its breach by the
defendants, the remaining covenantees who retained their interest in such boats
ought not to be deprived of their remedy on the agreement to recover the damages
sustained by them by means of such breach. *** The action can be sustained, if any
one of the plaintiffs has a beneficial interest in the suit. The covenant inured
to the benefit of the covenantees who retained their interest in the steamboats
running on the river. The other covenantees who had sold out and therefore could
not be injured by the breach of the agreement, are merely nominal parties to the
suit. The dissolution of the Hudson River Steamboat Association is no defense to
the suit. The agreement was not made with the plaintiffs as members of the
association, or as copartners, but as individuals, and was intended to protect
their interest, whatever that might be, in the steamboats running between New York
and Albany. The obligation of the agreement is not at an end, because the
steamboat association has been dissolved, or because the partnership of which the
plaintiffs were members at the time of the making of the agreement has expired by
efflux of time."

And in  Beard v. Dennis, 6 Ind. 200, 63 Am. Dec. 381, Dennis, Mumford & Hooper,
partners engaged in the agricultural implement business in the city of Richmond,
Ind., purchased the stock of Beard & Sinex, then in the same business, and who
contracted with Dennis, Mumford & Hooper not to again resume that business in
Richmond. Afterwards Dennis bought out his partners and continued the business.
Beard & Sinex took in an additional partner and resumed the agricultural implement
business. Dennis filed his bill to enjoin them from doing so. It was held that he
succeeded to all the rights of his partners under the contract they had made, and
that the defendants by taking in an additional partner could not escape their
contract, and the agreement they had made was enforced according to its spirit and
the intention of the parties.

In the case of Pemberton v. Vaughn, 10 Adolphus & Ellis, 59 Eng. Com. Law, 87, the
facts were as follows: The defendant was in possession of a house in which he made
and sold ginger beer. For a consideration he gave possession of the premises and
sold the good will of his business to the plaintiff, agreeing not to again enter
the same business within one mile of said premises. There was a breach of this
agreement and action brought for the damages sustained. Upon matters urged in
defense the court said: "It does not follow that the plaintiff will not require
the protection of the agreement because he may not himself continue in the
business; he may sell the business and sell it on better terms on account of the
protection secured by the agreement."

In the case of Hitchcock v. Koker, 6 Adolphus & Ellis, 98, 33 Eng. Com. Law, 438,
which involved a similar question, the court in sustaining the action held: "If
therefore it is not unreasonable, as undoubtedly it is not, to prevent a servant
from entering into the same trade in the same town in which his master lives, so
long as the master carries on the trade there, we cannot think it unreasonable
that the restraint should be carried further, and it should be allowed to continue
if the master sells the trade or bequeaths it, or it becomes the property of his
personal representative; that is, if it is reasonable that the master can by an
agreement secure himself from a diminution of the annual profits of his trade, it
does not appear to us unreasonable that these restrictions should go so far as to
secure to the master the enjoyment of the price or value for which the trade would
sell, or secure the enjoyment of the same trade to his purchaser, or legatee, or
executor."

The case of  Francisco v. Smith, 143 N. Y. 488, 38 N. E. 980, is also in point.
The facts were these: Francisco purchased the business of a baker in the town
Little Falls, N. Y., the seller contracting not to engage in a similar business in
that town for five years. Francisco mortgaged the fixtures and other personal
property used in the business and made a default. The mortgage was foreclosed, the
property purchased by the mortgagee, and the business suspended and closed for
several months. Mrs. Francisco then repurchased the fixtures and other personal
property and reopened the business in her own name, and purchased from her husband
the contract which Smith had made with him. Smith opened a competing business, and
she *1108 brought a bill to enjoin him from continuing it, and it was held: "It is
unquestioned that the agreement entered into by the defendant not to engage in the
bakery and confectionery business in Little Falls, during the period of five
years, was legal and valid, and that courts of equity will enforce such agreements
for the protection of the business to which they relate. Such an agreement is a
valuable right in connection with the business it was designed to protect, and
going with the business it may be assigned, and the assignee may enforce it just
as the assignor could have enforced it if he had retained the business.  Diamond
Match Co. v. Roeber, 106 N. Y. 473, 13 N. E. 419, 60 Am. Rep. 464. "The agreement
can have no independent existence or vitality aside from the business. If Mr.
Francisco had not disposed of the business, and had not himself carried it on,
there would have been nothing for the agreement to operate upon-no grounds for
equitable relief against a breach thereof, or for recovery in an action at law of
anything except possibly nominal damages. He would not have lost the benefit of
the agreement by omitting, for any definite time during the five years, to carry
on the business. It may be assumed, and, indeed, it is conceded, that he retained
the business until he made the assignment to the plaintiff, May 25, 1891. At that
date there was nothing which prevented him from resuming and carrying on the
business, and then having the full benefit of the defendant's agreement. But
before that date the plaintiff had purchased the property, tools, and fixtures
connected with the business, and was in possession of the place where the business
had been carried on by the defendant and subsequently by her husband. At that date
he assigned to her the business and the good will thereof, and all his rights
under the defendant's agreement. Mr. Francisco having the conceded right to sell
all the property and the business together, and to assign the agreement at the
same time, what is there in reason or principle that precludes him from first
disposing of the property and place of business, and afterward selling and
assigning to the same person the business and the good will thereof, together with
the agreement made for the protection of the business? We can perceive nothing.
The assignment of the agreement goes with, and is connected with, the business as
much in the one case as in the other."

In the case of Upriver  Ice Co. v. Denler, 114 Mich. 297, 72 N. W. 157, 68 Am. St.
Rep. 480, the defendant sold 140 shares of the capital stock of the complainant, a
corporation, to Bennett and contracted with him not to again engage in the ice
business in Port Huron or near there, either as principal, agent, or employe.
Bennett assigned this contract to Hayes, and he to the complainant. Denler
purchased the Crystal Ice Company and resumed the ice business in Port Huron. The
complainant brought a bill to restrain him from continuing the business in
violation of the contract which it held as assignee of Bennett. The defense was
that the contract was personal in its nature, and enforceable only by the person
in whose interest it was made. The court granted complainant full relief saying:
"But it is said that the complainant could take no interest in the contract as
assignee. We have proceeded upon the assumption that the contract was made in the
interest of the company, and was supported by some consideration. But even if this
were not the fact, yet the written contract made with Bennett came to the company
by assignment; and, we think, the complainant acquired all the rights of Bennett
by the assignment. That very question was considered in Jacoby v. Whitmore, 49 Law
T. (N. S.) 335. The original contract was made between Whitmore and one Martin
Cheek. Thereafter Cheek assigned to plaintiff all his beneficial interest and
goods will in the business, and it was held that plaintiff took by this assignment
all the rights and interest which Cheek held under the contract. In the present
case the complainant company was directly interested in protecting itself from the
competition of Denler. The company was composed of the two, O'Neil and Hayes.
Hayes had taken an assignment of the Denler contract and turned such rights over
to the company by assignment, and we are of the opinion that the company had the
right to enforce the contract."

It is therefore clear, we think, that the contract of the complainants not to
engage in the furniture business in Nashville for three years from and after
February 1, 1902, was not annulled or forfeited by any of the facts relied upon,
and that they breached it when Bradford with others entered that business before
the expiration of the time contracted for, both while the defendants were
stockholders in the Montgomery Furniture & Manufacturing Company, and afterwards
when they resumed business as partners.

The Court of Chancery Appeals, as stated, was of the opinion that this breach was
a complete defense to the recovery sought upon the note of defendants, and
dismissed complainants' bill. Complainants insist that granting the breach of
their contract, as herein held, the effect is not necessarily to defeat their
action, but that the relief which the defendants were entitled to was either to
enjoin them from again entering into business in violation of their contract, or
an action to recover such damages as naturally and proximately followed such
breach which might be recouped in this case, or recovered in a separate action at
the election of the defendants. The determination of these questions depend upon
whether the contract made between the parties was an entirety or not. If it was an
entire contract supported *1109 by one consideration, or the agreement upon the
part of the complainants to cease the furniture business in Nashville for three
years was a condition precedent, there can be no doubt but what the decree of the
Court of Chancery Appeals is correct, and that the complainants' bill should be
dismissed. In the case of  Coleman v. Hudson, 34 Tenn. 465, Judge McKinney
speaking for the court says: "The distinction between an entire and severable
contract is clearly stated in the books. In the former the consideration is entire
on both sides. It does not, either by its terms or the implied intention of the
parties, contemplate or admit of apportionment upon a partial failure on either
side; and the complete fulfillment of the contract by either is required as a
condition precedent to the fulfillment of any part of the contract by the other. A
severable contract is a contract, the consideration of which by its terms is
susceptible of division and apportionment. There is, in such contract, no entirety
of consideration on either side constituting a condition of the agreement; and
neither party can claim more than an equivalent for the actual consideration on
his part. Story on Con. ss 21, 22.

"An entire contract in its legal interpretation is an unconditional agreement for
the whole of the several articles, or number or quantity of goods contracted for;
and precludes by its terms, and equally by the plain intention of the parties, all
idea of divisibility. A severable contract on the other hand in its terms implies
an apportionment."

"There is another class of cases noticed in some of the books of a mixed nature
partaking of the character both of entire and severable contracts, and which may
be considered as entire or severable according to the circumstances of the
particular cases."

In Page on Contracts, s 1453, it is said: "The question whether a covenant is
independent or dependent, turns entirely upon the intention of the parties as
shown in the entire contract, and the tests hereinafter suggested, while of great
help, cannot be conclusive in every case. The question whether covenants are
dependent or independent must be determined in each case upon the proper
construction to be placed upon the language employed by the parties to express
their agreement. If parties think proper, they may agree that the right of one to
maintain an action against another shall be conditional or dependent upon the
plaintiff's performance of covenants entered into on his part. On the other hand,
they may agree that the performance by one should be a condition precedent to
performance by the other. The question in each case is, which intent is disclosed
by the language employed in the contract. It is said where the acts stipulated to
be done, are to be done at different times, the stipulations are to be construed
as independent of each other. This, as a general rule, is correct, but it is
subject to the intention of the parties as signified in the language of the
contract. The great rule is to ascertain the intent of the parties from the
language used."

Applying the principles here announced, we think that the contract in question was
not entire, but severable, and that this clearly appears from its terms and the
circumstances surrounding its execution.

The consideration of the note of the defendants was twofold-the good will of the
firm of Bradford & Carson and their contract not to engage in the furniture
business in Nashville for three years from the time of their sale to the
defendants. These are separate and distinct considerations.


The good will of a firm is a species of property, often very valuable, and it may
be sold and transferred. It is defined by Judge Story as follows: "This good will
may be properly enough described to be the advantage or benefit which is acquired
by an establishment beyond the mere value of the capital, stock, funds, or
property employed therein, in consequence of the general public patronage and
encouragement which it received from constant and habitual customers, on account
of its local position or common celebrity or reputation for skill, or affluence or
punctuality, or from other accidental circumstances or necessities, or even from
ancient partiality or prejudices." Story on Pat. s 99.

A contract or agreement upon the part of the vendor of the good will not to resume
the same business in the same locality, while adding greatly to it when sold, is
no part of the good will and is not implied from a sale of it. It is the subject
of a separate and distinct contract and in the absence of an express agreement of
that kind the vendor is at liberty to resume his former business at his pleasure.
This seems to be well settled.  Jackson v. Byrnes, 103 Tenn. 700, 54 S. W. 984;
Howard v. Taylor, 90 Ala. 243, 8 South. 36; Page on Con. s 374.

There can be no question but that the defendants acquired the good will of
Bradford & Carson, and that it was delivered to them at the time of their
purchase. There was certainly no failure of this part of the consideration of the
note. The entire business of Bradford & Carson was turned over to the defendants,
and Bradford the active partner, worked for them on a salary for several months.
Performance of this part of the contract, it is clear, was not dependent upon any
of the other parts of it as it was done immediately while the execution of all the
other parts was deferred. The contract of complainants not to again engage in the
furniture business while the performance of it was begun immediately, could not be
completed until the expiration of the three years from its date. This contract
upon the part of the defendants to pay $3,000 as a consideration for the good will
which had been delivered to them, and the agreement on the *1110 part of
complainants to cease business for three years, was to be performed in one year
from its date. One year from the reception of part of the consideration, and two
years before complainants could complete the other part of the consideration. It
is clear, therefore, that it could not have been the intention of the parties that
the performance of this contract by either party was conditioned upon its
performance by the other. The terms of the contract render such an intention
absolutely impossible of execution. We think, therefore, it is clear that the
contract between the parties is severable, and that the breach by the complainants
of that part of the agreement binding them not to resume business for three years
cannot defeat their action upon the note of the defendants. It would be unjust to
so hold, since the defendants have received by far the larger part of the
consideration of their note- the good will of the firm of Bradford & Carson, and
the performance of their contract to cease business for nearly one-third of the
time agreed upon, which was certainly the most advantageous part of it to the
defendants in enabling them to secure and hold the business of that firm.


We are of the opinion that the defendants are entitled to maintain their
cross-bill to recover from the complainants such damages as they sustained from
the breach of complainants' contract not to re-enter the furniture business in
Nashville within three years, which are the natural and proximate results of such
breach, to be set off against the decree upon their note, in part or whole, and if
the same be in excess of such decree, to have a judgment therefor in this case.

Contracts of this character, when they, like the one under consideration, are
reasonable and go no further than affording a fair protection to the good will
purchased, do not interfere with the general interests of the public, and are not
in restraint of trade, but valid and enforceable.  Jackson v. Byrnes, 103 Tenn.
699, 54 S. W. 984;  Muse v. Swayne, 70 Tenn. 251, 31 Am. Rep. 607;  Anchor
Electric Co. v. Hanks, 171 Mass. 101, 50 N. E. 509, 41 L. R. A. 189, 68 Am. St.
Rep. 403;  Mell v. Moony, 30 Ga. 413;  Lufburrow v. Henderson, 30 Ga. 482;
Herbert v. Ford, 29 Me. 546;  Warfield v. Booth, 33 Md. 63; Sedgwick on Damages, s
1062; Page on Contracts, s 375.

The chief difficulty found in actions for breaches of contracts of this character,
is in ascertaining the damages which the plaintiff can recover, as they are
generally uncertain, remote, and speculative. For this reason the most efficient
remedy is an injunction inhibiting the defendant from again entering into the
business he has contracted not to resume. The jurisdiction of courts of equity to
grant this relief is well established.  Jackson v. Byrnes, 103 Tenn. 699, 54 S. W.
984.

The right of the plaintiff to maintain an action at law upon a contract not to
compete in business is equally well established, and the plaintiff has his
election as to which remedy he will pursue, but when he elects to sue for damages,
he must be prepared to prove such damages as the law recognizes, or otherwise he
can only recover nominal damages. The true measure of damages for a breach of
contract of this sort is the injury the plaintiff has sustained. If he has
sustained no damages which are the natural and proximate results of the breach, he
has sustained no injury, and can only recover nominal damages. The measure of
damages in a case of this character is well and fully stated in the case of
Howard v. Taylor, 90 Ala. 242, 8 South. 36 cited with approval by this court in
Jackson v. Byrnes, supra.

The facts of that case were as follows:

Howard sold to Taylor his bar and fixtures in the town of Decatur, with an
unexpired lease upon the premises where he did busines, and the good will of the
concern for the aggregate price of $1,400, and promised and agreed that he would
not carry on the same business at any other place in that town, but would remove
his stock of goods and business to another county. This contract was breached by
his resuming business in Decatur, and the action was to recover damages accruing
to the plaintiff from such breach. The trial judge charged that the measure of
damages was the difference between the value of the property sold, and the
aggregate price paid to the defendant. In reversing the judgment in favor of the
plaintiff, Clopton, J., speaking for the court, said:

"The question arises, does the charge upon the facts stated, and in view of the
character of the stipulation and its connection with the good will, assert the
correct measure of recovery? In other words, is the compensation for the injury
sustained by the breach of such promise arbitrarily measured by the excess of the
gross amount paid over the value of the other property, without regard to the
extent of the actual injury suffered? In an action founded on the breach of a
contract, the general rule is that the plaintiff can only recover the natural and
proximate damages caused by the breach complained of. Under this rule, the right
of the plaintiff is to recover compensation for the injury he has sustained by the
violation of the promise not to engage in the same business. The difficulty of
proving the damages from the breach of such promise, arising from its nature, may
be conceded. The uncertainty and difficulty of proving the resulting damages does
not except the case from the operation of the general rule, and, in the absence of
proof, positive or circumstantial, of injury, the plaintiff is entitled to recover
only nominal damages.  Terry v. Eslava, 1 Port. (Ala.) 273, 26 Am. Dec. 626. The
loss of profits, if there are data from which the amount may be ascertained with
reasonable certainty; the diminution in value of the property sold, and the *1111
cost of the licenses for the unexpired term, all may be regarded as elements of
the damages, which go to make up the measure of recovery.   Burkhardt v.
Burkhardt, 42 Ohio St. 474, 51 Am. Rep. 842;  Mitchell v. Read, 84 N. Y. 556;
Mellesch v. Keen, 28 Beav. 453;  Rawson v. Pratt, 91 Ind. 9.

"In such action, the plaintiff must not only show a right of recovery, but also
the facts or elements which compose the measure of recovery, unless the criterion
by which the damage may be ascertained is provided by the contract, or by the law
operating on the contract. Without proof of actual injury, and its extent-from the
mere fact that the defendant engaged in the same business in Decatur-the
instruction assumes that plaintiff suffered damages to the extent of the
difference between the gross price paid and the value of the property other than
the good will. Though a promise not to engage in the same business imparts value
to the good will, for the reason that it affords a protection to the business of
the purchaser, not obtainable by the good will simpliciter, there is no
distinction in the character and extent of the damage produced by a breach of such
promise. In either case, engaging in rival business, and inducing the old
customers of the seller and the public to deal with him, is the main source and
cause of injury. The value and enjoyment of the good will are depreciated and
interrupted by reason of the proximate damage to the business of the purchaser
caused thereby. The plaintiff received the the fixtures, and exercised the right
to lease and occupy the house, and in so doing received the good will, so far as
it pertains to, and is the incident of, the place of business-the advantage of
patronage on account of its local position. Under these circumstances, a violation
of the promise not to engage in the same business does not necessarily work the
total destruction of the good will, nor deprive plaintiff wholly of its enjoyment
and benefits. The rule as to the measure of damages, when there is the breach of a
contract for the sale of specific chattels by a failure to deliver a part of them,
is inapplicable. When the plaintiff elected his action on the contract for the
recovery of the damages consequent on its breach, he took upon himself the burden
of proving the extent of the injury. Merely showing a breach establishes the right
of plaintiff to damages, but, in the absence of proof of the extent of the injury,
he is entitled to recover only nominal damages.

"The charge given at the instance of the plaintiff is equally, if not more,
objectionable. On the same hypothesis, substantially, as the charge just
considered, and without any proof of actual damage, it authorized the jury to
render a verdict, using its own language, 'for whatever amount you may think the
plaintiff is damaged, not exceeding the amount claimed in plaintiff's complaint,
and after deducting $450 admitted by plaintiff to have been received by him.' The
damages claimed in the complaint were $2,000, and the amount of the deduction was
the proved value of the fixtures. Under the rule settled by our decisions, in an
action ex contractu of this character, neither remote, consequential nor exemplary
damages are recoverable. The plaintiff is entitled to just compensation for the
actual injuries, which are the natural and proximate consequences of the wrong
complained of; and such compensation must not be left to a capricious or
speculative decision, but awarded on established principles."

This case was again before the Supreme Court of Alabama  (110 Ala. 470, 18 South.
311) upon the appeal of the plaintiff, Taylor, and that court in passing upon the
same question said:

"His [Taylor's] only real ground of complaint consists in Howard engaging in a
competitive business in violation of his contract; for this breach he was entitled
to recover such actual damages as he could show naturally and proximately resulted
therefrom. Failing to furnish data from which the jury could properly estimate the
actual damages, he could recover only a nominal sum.

"The difficulty of making proof from which the damages may be accurately computed,
and the injustice of allowing the defendant to retain the full amount he received
while violating his agreement with apparent impunity, furnish a sufficient reason
why the plaintiff might have sought injunctive relief in a court of equity and
obtained the specific performance of the contract; but these circumstances do not
justify us in relieving the plaintiff of the burden of the action he elected to
bring, nor in declaring for his benefit a measure of damages not based upon sound
principles of law."

 Taylor v. Howard, 110 Ala. 470, 18 South. 311.

The principles announced by the Supreme Court of Alabama in these cases apply to
the rights of the parties in this case, and will be followed by the chancellor in
ascertaining the damages resulting to the cross-complainants from the breach of
contract of Bradford & Carson not to again enter the furniture business in
Nashville within the time they contracted not to do so.

This case will be remanded to the chancery court, where the damages sued for by
cross-complainants in their cross-bill, as shown by the averments thereof, will be
ascertained and set off, in whole or in part, as the proof may warrant, against
the decree in favor of complainants, and, if such damages exceed the amount of
said decree, cross-complainants will recover the same from the defendants to the
cross-bill.

Tenn. 1906.

Bradford & Carson v. Montgomery Furniture Co.

7 Cates 610, 115 Tenn. 610, 92 S.W. 1104, 9 L.R.A.N.S. 979

END OF DOCUMENT

Westlaw Delivery Summary Report for MATHEWS,MARY KAT 
Date/Time of Request:          Thursday, November 4, 2010 19:58 Eastern

Client Identifier:             TWEN-CLIENT

Database:                      TN-CS-FIND

Citation Text:                 92 S.W. 1104

Lines:                         712

Documents:                     1

Images:                        0

Recipient(s):                  booneradley@utk.edu


The material accompanying this summary is subject to copyright. Usage is governed by contract with Thomson Reuters, West and their affiliates. 



----boundary-LibPST-iamunique-1397609903_-_---

